# ECLIPSE FRIST ALPHA RELEASE 
> Every user interaction generates data – from a traffic stop to a suspect interview. In the past, a  police/guardians relied on a trusty notepad and pen. Today, police utilize devices such as police body-worn cameras, mobile data terminals, interview room cameras, and more. These devices are creating mountains of data, and because most of it is created digitally, the solution for managing it must also be digital.

eclipse creates an interface for users to easily upload their videos, incident reports, arrest records, and evidence documentation. This data is then stored digitally and can be shared among workstations or even across jurisdictions. 

The following are general requirements of eclipse :
- Single entry (i.e., no duplicate data entry)
- Eclipse should automatically submit data to external
sources as defined by the agency
- Maximum use of code tables
- Ability to enter and query narrative(s)/text fields
- Spell check and formatting capability on narrative(s)/ text fields
- Ability to access multiple systems from a single  workstation
- Single database (i.e., virtual or physical)
- Validation on data entry (i.e., logical edits, edit checks for all fields)
- Some functional specifications need to be addressed at
the agency level, such as the identification of specific
external agency interfaces. These unique functions are
addressed within each applicable business function. For all
exchanges generated by Eclipse.
- conformance with DOJ’s Global JXDM is required.

Internal and External Databases: An agency using  Eclipse should provide the capabilities for users to generate inquiries to internal and external data sources—such as state Department of Motor Vehicles and criminal history files, as well as the National Crime Information Center (NCIC)—from within each module where such inquiries make sense (does not apply to mexico). A module is an independent portion of the Eclipse software system which provides specific functionality, e.g., Arrest and Booking. Each module performs those procedures related to a specific process within a software package. Modules are normally separately compiled and linked together to build a software system. Single modules within the application can normally be modified without requiring change to other modules, nso long as requisite inputs and outputs of the modified module are maintained.

In addition, Eclipse should provide the user with the ability to reuse and/or import data returned from external sources to eliminate redundant data entry. Eclipse also should provide the capability to electronically forward Eclipse data to external data sources, either automatically or upon the user’s request (i.e., based on  agency rules embedded within Eclipse).
The above capabilities should be based on existing and emerging criminal justice standards, including DOJ’sn Global JXDM.



## Introducing Incident Reporting 
 > ideal usage means reports of  car Crashes Theft, Burglary

Incident reporting is the function of capturing, processing, and storing detailed information on all law enforcement related events handled by the department, including both criminal and noncriminal events. The incident reporting function collects sufficient information to satisfy the National Incident-Based Reporting System (NIBRS) in the US, or IPH in MEXICO


The data captured in this module must support the preparation and submission of all required federal crime  reporting (In the us or mexico) and provide the capability to print a copy of both the completed department’s incident report and the redacted incident report.


## Incident Reporting Requirements

> The incident report is prepared as soon as it is practical to do so following the incident and, depending on department procedure, may be updated throughout the initial investigation. Multiple officers may provide input once a single incident report is created and an incident number assigned. 

- A primary officer will be assigned with overall responsibility for completing the report. This
primary responsibility may shift to other officers during the
life of the report. 

- The incident report must contain sufficient
information to comply with national reporting requirements.
Typically, an incident report contains factual information
pertaining to the incident, including offense information,
suspect information, and case status, as well as
information pertaining to perpetrators, witnesses, victims,
and complainants. 

- Reporting requirements typically
mandate the collection of certain elements of information

- incident reports have free-text fields, which
allow the collection of an unlimited amount of narrative
information. 
- The system should provide the capability to
search the narratives for a specific word or phase.
Once completed, officers submit the incident report to their
supervisor for review

###  Supplemental  Report

> A supplemental report is used to add new information to the case after the initial incident report has been submitted and approved. 

The creation of a supplemental report may result from information gained during additional investigation and also may result in updating the status of
the investigation, possibly bringing it to closure.

Investigators are typically the individuals within the law enforcement agency responsible for follow-up investigation and for creating supplemental reports. To that end, they must be able to query and retrieve the initial incident report and use it as a baseline document for the supplemental report. They also must be able to electronically submit the report to a supervisor for review and dissemination. Multiple officers must be able to simultaneously create and add supplemental reports regarding the same event. All supplemental reports are linked to the original incident report. The agency should be able to link all of the associated reports with a common report number. This may be done using the original incident report number, possibly with a suffix indicating supplementals or a case number.

### Report Review 
> The incident report must be able to be locked from further edits at a point determined by the agency. This does not preclude the viewing of the document by those with access
permissions, but the ability to block access should be a capability of the system.

Supervisors review incident reports and supplemental  reports for accuracy and quality prior to their permanent, noneditable storage in the local RMS database and/
or their distribution to the agency records bureau; toother agencies; and to local, state and federal criminal information repositories. RMS must allow supervisors to receive, review, and approve incident reports online and to electronically respond to submitting officers and investigators regarding report quality and accuracy issues. The department’s
Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) also may require that the records division complete an accuracy review for compliance to reporting requirements prior to adding the information to the database. The system should support all required reviews and corrections prior to locking down the incident report.